added the explanation for problem apio2011-path (#767)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/APIO 11-path.mdx

id: apio-11-path
source: APIO 2011
title: Find the Path
author: Albert Ye, Andi Qu
---

# Solution

> The hardest part of this problem is designing the nodes and the edges to use in the Dijkstra. The framing of the problem means that it is most likely a Dijkstra problem.

Reviewer: Could you add the complexity to the top of the code please?

Reviewer: Also, I think you should swap these two sentences

Author: yea i'll do that

To form the edges, we look at the possible movements that we can take. Firstly, we can jump off of the current rectangle and potentially reach a new rectangle. Secondly, we can move along our current rectangle.

> The vertices in this case would be every point on our rectangle, and the edges in this case would be every point on the exterior of the rectangle. However, for the full problem this would be too many (up to 1e9) points!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vertices in this case would be every point on our rectangle, and the edges, in this case, would be every point on the exterior of the rectangle. However, for the full problem, this would be too many (up to $10^9$) points!
```

> We can use the technique of coordinate compression to reduce the amount of points. As we have $n \leq 1000$, there can be at most $2000$ horizontal and $2000$ vertical points, for a total of at most $4000000$ points. And similarly, there can be at most $4000000$ edges. This *barely* fits into an $O(m \lg n)$ time frame worst worst case. There can probably be more optimizations but this works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the technique of coordinate compression to reduce the number of points. As we have $n \leq 1000$, there can be at most $2000$ horizontal and $2000$ vertical points, for a total of at most $4000000$ points. And similarly, there can be at most $4000000$ edges. This *barely* fits into an $O(m \log n)$ time frame worst case. There can probably be more optimizations but this works.
```

Maybe also mention how we only care about "critical" points? i.e. we don't care about lines starting and ending in the middle of the rectangles' sides

Author: lg is log base 2 btw

> So we compress the coordinates, but keep the original coordinates so we can calculate distances. Next, we begin to build the graph. Storing each coordinate point as a node, we draw edges between adjacent points on the rectangle. Next, using sweepline, we also draw edges between points on adjacent rectangles; we must repeat this step for horizontal and vertical edges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we compress the coordinates, but keep the original coordinates so we can calculate distances. Next, we begin to build the graph. Storing each coordinate point as a node, we draw edges between adjacent points on the rectangle. Next, using a sweep line, we also draw edges between points on adjacent rectangles; we must repeat this step for horizontal and vertical edges.
```

Author: oops i can fix this

id: apio-11-path
source: APIO 2011
title: Find the Path
author: Albert Ye, Andi Qu
---

Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(m \log n)$

> # Solution

Reviewer 2: I think our standard is 2 #'s?
```suggestion
## Solution
```

Same applies below

The framing of the problem means that it is most likely a Dijkstra problem; the hardest part is designing the nodes and edges.

To form the edges, we look at the possible movements that we can take. Firstly, we can jump off of the current rectangle and potentially reach a new rectangle. Secondly, we can move along our current rectangle.

The vertices in this case would be every point on our rectangle, and the edges, in this case, would be every point on the exterior of the rectangle. However, for the full problem, this would be too many (up to $10^9$) points!

> We can use the technique of coordinate compression to reduce the amount of points. As we have $n \leq 1000$, there can be at most $2000$ horizontal and $2000$ vertical points, for a total of at most $4000000$ points. And similarly, there can be at most $4000000$ edges. This *barely* fits into an $\mathcal{O}(m \log n)$ time frame worst case. There can probably be more optimizations but this works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the technique of coordinate compression to reduce the amount of points. As we have $n \leq 1\,000$, there can be at most $2\,000$ horizontal and $2\,000$ vertical points, for a total of at most $4\,000\,000$ points. And similarly, there can be at most $4\,000\,000$ edges. This *barely* fits into an $\mathcal{O}(m \log n)$ time frame worst case. There can probably be more optimizations but this works.
```

Reviewer 2: It's the way CF does it and I like it :)
